Add filtering examples (#194)
xataio/mdx-docs: 040-SDK/115-filtering.mdx

```

</TabbedCode>

## Examples

> We will walk through various examples to demonstrate the use cases of the different filtering options and operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples provided illustrate how to use various filtering options and operators in different use cases.
```

> For the example we use an access log of a web server, saved in a table called `access_logs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, use the web server's access log, which is stored in a table named `access_logs`.
```

255.231.52.33,27/Dec/2037:12:00:00 +0530,PUT,usr/admin/developer,HTTP/1.0,403,5054,http://www.parker-miller.org/tag/list/list/privacy/,Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML; like Gecko) Chrome/87.0.4280.88 Safari/537.36 OPR/73.0.3856.329,3629
238.217.83.154,27/Dec/2037:12:00:00 +0530,DELETE,usr/register,HTTP/1.0,304,5152,-,Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML; like Gecko) Chrome/89.0.4380.0 Safari/537.36 Edg/89.0.759.0,4679
119.170.1.203,27/Dec/2037:12:00:00 +0530,GET,usr,HTTP/1.0,303,5011,http://www.parker-miller.org/tag/list/list/privacy/,Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 10; ONEPLUS A6000) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML; like Gecko) Chrome/87.0.4280.141 Mobile Safari/537.36,4541
59.107.116.6,27/Dec/2037:12:00:00 +0530,POST,usr,HTTP/1.0,502,5008,-,Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_3) AppleWebKit/537.75.14 (KHTML; like Gecko) Version/7.0.3 Safari/7046A194A,1213
```

> The data source is [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vishnu0399/server-logs/data?select=logfiles.log) and licensed as [public domain](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset, available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vishnu0399/server-logs/data?select=logfiles.log), consists of server logs and is licensed under the [public domain](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
```

> For illustration purposes, the data has been trimmed to 1000 records and converted to a CSV for a convenient [import](/docs/csv-data/import-data). The file can be downloaded [here]().

Reviewer: I guess a link is needed for `here` as well...

```suggestion
In this example, the data has been trimmed to 1000 records and converted to a CSV for a convenient [import](/docs/csv-data/import-data). The file can be downloaded [here]().
```

### Multiple exact matches

> In the following query we want to fetch all records that have the status_code exactly `502` and the HTTP method `DELETE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the upcoming query, you'll retrieve all records that have a status_code of exactly `502` and use the HTTP method `DELETE`.
```

> In order to combine both filter conditions, we must use the `$all` operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To combine both filter conditions, you must use the `$all` operator.
```

<TabbedCode tabs={['TypeScript', 'Python', 'SQL', 'JSON']}>

```ts
const records = await xata.db.access_logs
  .filter({
    $all: [{ status_code: { $is: 502 } }, { method: { $is: 'DELETE' } }]
  })
  .getMany();
```

```python
records = xata.data().query("access_logs", {
  "filter": {
    "$all": [
        { "status_code": { "$is": 502 } },
        { "method": { "$is": "DELETE" } },
    ]
  }
})
```

```jsonc
// POST https://{workspace}.{region}.xata.sh/db/{db}:{branch}/sql

{
  "statement": "SELECT * FROM \"access_logs\" WHERE (status_code = 502) AND (method = \"DELETE\") LIMIT 20;"
}
```

```jsonc
// POST https://{workspace}.{region}.xata.sh/db/{db}:{branch}/tables/{table}/query

{
  "filter": {
    "$all": [{ "status_code": { "$is": 502 } }, { "method": { "$is": "DELETE" } }]
  }
}
```

</TabbedCode>

### Nested operators

This example will demonstrate how to use multiple operators.

> We want to get all records that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You want to get all records that:
```

- IP range starts with `202.8.*` or `29.171.152.*`
- attempted to login on URL path `usr/login`
- HTTP methods are `PUT` or `POST`

> - did not produce the status code `200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Did not produce the status code `200`
```

<TabbedCode tabs={['TypeScript', 'Python', 'SQL', 'JSON']}>

```ts
const records = await xata.db.access_logs
  .filter({
    $all: [
      {

>         // IP range starts with `202.8.*` or `29.171.152.*`

Reviewer: I dont think the back ticks will appear in the code snippet

```suggestion
        // IP range starts with 202.8.* or 29.171.152.*
```

        $any: [{ ip: { $startsWith: '202.8.' } }, { ip: { $startsWith: '29.171.152.' } }]
      },

>       // attempted to login with PUT or POST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Attempted to log in with PUT or POST
```

      { method: { $any: ['PUT', 'POST'] } },

>       // login url_path exact match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Log in url_path exact match
```

      { url_path: { $is: 'usr/login' } },
      {

>         // did not produce the status code `200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Did not produce the status code 200
```

        $not: {
          status_code: { $is: 200 }
        }
      }
    ]
  })
  .getMany();
```

```python
records = xata.data().query("access_logs", {
  "filter": {
    "$all": [
        { # IP range starts with `202.8.*` or `29.171.152.*`
          "$any": [
            { "ip": { "$startsWith": "202.8." } },
            { "ip": { "$startsWith": "29.171.152." } },
          ]
        },

>         # attempted to login with PUT or POST

Reviewer: I know these are just the comments, but still

        { "method": { "$any": ["PUT", "POST"] } },

>         # login url_path exact match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Log in url_path exact match
```

        { "url_path": { "$is": "usr/login" } },

>         { # did not produce the status code `200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        { # Did not produce the status code `200`
```
